---
layout: page
published: true
title: Gitflow
permalink: development/gitflow
---

<p class="lead">At GPMD we use a Git branching model based on something called Gitflow. Full details can be found on <a href="http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/" title="Gitflow">Vincent Driessen's website</a>.</p>

One of the best things about Git is the ability to create ‘branches’. A branch is basically a whole new snapshot of your codebase at a point in time. We create branches so we can code new features and functionality, and then merge these changes back into the master branch at a later stage.

At the core of our project are two branches, ‘master’ and ‘develop’. All development work is done on the ‘develop’ branch. While working on a project we create additional ‘feature’ branches off of ‘develop’. Once our ‘develop’ branch is at a stage where we want to publish our site we create a ‘release’ branch off of ‘develop’. Work can then continue on the ‘develop’ branch with new features. The new ‘release’ branch is then merged into the ‘master’ branch, and then 'master' is merged back into the 'develop' branch. And so it goes on in an endless loop.

It might sound a bit complicated, but once you start using it you’ll find you quickly get to grips with it.

## Process

### Feature Branches

Create a new feature branch off of `develop`.

```bash
$ git checkout -b feature/my-new-feature
```

When you've finished working on your feature you can commit your changes and then merge it back into `develop`.

```bash
$ git checkout develop
$ git merge --no-ff feature/my-new-feature
$ git push origin develop
```

### Release Branches

Release branches merge off of `develop` as well.

```bash
$ git checkout -b release/1.0.0
```

When you've made your release branch you can merge it into master.

```bash
$ git checkout master
$ git merge --no-ff release/1.0.0
$ git tag -a v1.0.0 -m 'Version 1.0.0'
$ git push origin master
```

**IMPORTANT:** When you've done that you should merge `master` back into `develop`.

```bash
$ git checkout develop
$ git merge --no-ff master
$ git push origin develop
```

### Hotfix Branches

To do...